#summary Frequently Asked Questions

==== Introduction ====

This page will gradually be filled with FAQ's that reach us (for example from the [UserGroup] of pchart4mw) or the extension's talk page.

==== Q & A ====
<table border="0">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="15px">*Q:*</td>
<td>I only see a blank (transparent) image?</td>
<tr>
</tr>
<td valign="top">*A:*</td>
<td>This happens when pChart4mw does not receive any data. Make sure there is data in the chart definition and that each data-item is properly separated with line-breaks.</td>
</tr>
</table> 

<table border="0">
<tr>
<td valign="top" width="15px">*Q:*</td>
<td>How do I check the PHP settings of my server?</td>
<tr>
</tr>
<td valign="top">*A:*</td>
<td>pChart4mw requires PHP with GD Library and freetype extension enables. To check if your PHP installation matches these requirements make a text file named phpinfo.php with the following content:
{{{
<?php

// Show all information, defaults to INFO_ALL
phpinfo();
?>
}}}
The with your browser, browser tot this page: http:\\...\phpinfo.php, ... being the URL to where you placed the file.

You will see a lot of PHP info as output. Search for "freetype" and under the header gd you can see if GD and freetype are enabled or not.
</td>
</tr>
</table> 


<dl>
<dt>Q: How do I check the PHP settings of my server?</dt>
<dt>A: pChart4mw requires PHP with GD Library and freetype extension enables. To check if your PHP installation matches these requirements make a text file named phpinfo.php with the following content:
{{{
<?php

// Show all information, defaults to INFO_ALL
phpinfo();
?>
}}}
The with your browser, browser tot this page: http:\\...\phpinfo.php, ... being the URL to where you placed the file.

You will see a lot of PHP info as output. Search for "freetype" and under the header gd you can see if GD and freetype are enabled or not.
</dt>
</dl>