#summary Describes the installation of pChart4mw for MediaWiki administrators
#labels Phase-Deploy
#sidebar TableOfContents

This page describes the installation and initial configuration of the pChart library AND the pChart4mw extension. Most steps for installation and configuration are the same as for other !MediaWiki extensions. When you follow the following steps, the extension should work within minutes.

=== Step 0: Check requirements===
You need a up-and-running !MediaWiki wiki-site. Make sure that the PHP version on your server is 5.x and has GD library with freetype extension enabled. 

pChart4mw has proven to work well with !MediaWiki versions 1.12 ... 1.16 (including its new vector skin).

Check the required version of the pChart Library to use with pchart4mw on the [ReleaseNotes release notes] page.

=== Step 1: Install the pChart4mw extension ===
Download the pChart4mw extension (zip-file) from our download page or [ReleaseNotes release notes page] and extract it into the new extension folder:
{{{
$IP/extensions/pChart4mw
}}}
After extraction you should have these files and sub-folder:
{{{
$IP/extensions/pChart4mw/colorschemes/
                        /colorschemes/*.txt
                        /pChart4mw.php
                        /pChart4mw.class.php
                        /pChart4mw.bars.class.php
                        /pChart4mw.bubble.class.php
                        /pChart4mw.lines.class.php
                        /pChart4mw.pie.class.php
                        /pChart4mw.radar.php
                        /pChart4mw.scatter.class.php
                        /library.inc.php
                        /changes.txt
}}}

=== Step 2: Install the pChart library ===
The first thing you need is a copy of the pChart library. Download the pChart Library package (rar-file) from the pChart website [http://pchart.sourceforge.net/ here...] Follow the instructions for pChart installation. The location where pChart is installed must be specified later on in {{{LocalSettings.php}}}. Remember this location. Check the system requirements for the pChart library. _(your PHP installation needs to have GD library with freetype extension enabled)_ 
Locations for the pChart library are, for example: <br>

 # Most commin is to install the pChart library installed in {{{$IP/extensions/pChart4mw/pChart/*.*}}} _(sub-folder of the pchart4mw extension)_ 

After extraction you <font size="2" color="Green">*only need to keep*</font> these files:
{{{
.../pChart/Fonts/*.ttf
          /pChart.class
          /pCache.class
          /pData.class
}}}

<font size="2" color="Green">*! Tip:*</font> All other files that come in the pChart Library package can be deleted. Deleting the unnecessary files makes for a 'clean and clear' installation folder.

=== Step 3: Tell !MediaWiki about this extension ==
Once the files are installed you need to let !MediaWiki know about this extension. Add the following line to the file {{{LocalSettings.php}}}
{{{
require_once( "$IP/extensions/pChart4mw/pChart4mw.php" );
}}}

Define the location where pChart library is installed. This variable contains the absolute path to the directory where the pChart class resides. Add the following line to `LocalSettings.php`:

Option 1: point to `[documentroot]/pChart/pChart.class` with:
{{{
$wgPChart4mwPChartPath = $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"] . "/pChart";
}}}

Option 2: point to `$IP/extensions/pChart4mw/pChart/pChart.class` with: 
{{{
$wgPChart4mwPChartPath = $_SERVER["DOCUMENT_ROOT"] . "/wiki/extensions/pChart4mw/pChart";
}}}

Your setup is good to go. 

=== Configure the extension ===
There are additional configuration options you might like to set to customize pchart4mw to your personal preferences. (Recommended is to do this after testing [YourFirstGraph your first chart]). 

Information about configuration of pchart4mw can be found in the section [Configuration configuration].

===Maintenance===
Important: As administrator of the wiki site make sure to read the [SiteMaintenance maintenance] instructions.  