#summary Parameters that can be used in pchart4mw-tags
#labels Phase-Documentation

= Introduction =

This page describes all paramaters that can be used in pchart4mw. These parameters are set inside the chart-tag, to control the look and feel of the chart. The example below shows a graph with a title, a specified size, a legend and the unit on the Y-axis is millions. The default parameters are set by the wiki owner, so the can differ per site.

{{{
<pBars title="Hello World!" size=400x200 legend yunit="M">
,Turnover,Profit
New York,3.1,0.2
London,7.5,1.2
Amsterdam,4.0,0.4
Jerusalem,1.2,0.1
Sydney,6.4,2.1ti
</pBars>
}}}

== Entering parameters ==
The parameters can be entered inside the XML-tag, so between '<pbars' and '>'. Different parameters can be separated with one or more spaces. 

When a parameter expects a value (e.g. 'title'), you can use a '=' sign and then specify the value. When the value contains a whitespace (space, tab or newline) you have to put quotation marks around them. There are also parameters that do not expect a value (e.g. 'legend').

== Colors ==
When colors are specified using a parameter, the HTML color notation is used. HTML colors are defined using a [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hexadecimal hexadecimal] (hex) notation for the combination of Red, Green, and Blue color values (RGB). The lowest value that can be given to one of the light sources is 0 (hex 00). The highest value is 255 (hex FF). Hex values are written as 3 double digit numbers, starting with a # sign.

_Example_:
||*Color*||*Red*||*Green*||*Blue*||*HTML color*||
||Red||255||0||0||#FF0000||
||Blue||0||0||255||#0000FF||
||Yellow||0||255||255||#0000FF||
||Gray||128||128||128||#808080||

_See also_:
* [http://www.w3schools.com/Html/html_colors.asp HTML colors at w3schools]
* [http://html-color-codes.info/ HTML color picker]

== Notation ==
In the explanation of the parameters below, we use the following notation standards:
|| *title=..* || This notation means that the title expects a value, but you can enter whatever you want as a title. ||
|| *axis[=<u>true</u>|false]* || This parameter has a few possible values. The brackets around the value-part means that this part is optional. If it is not specified, the underlined value is taken as default. The parameter 'axis' without value means therefore that the axis must be shown. ||
|| *size={aa}x{bb}* || This means that the parameter size must have a value. The value has a specific format, in this case some number followed by a x followed by another number. The allowed values for the parameter is explained in detail in the details section for the parameter. ||
|| *axiscolor={color}* || This means that the parameter axiscolor must have a value. The value should be a HTML color, as explained in the previous paragraph. ||

= Parameters for all types of charts =
There are a number of parameters that can be set for all types of charts. 

== Size of the chart==
<dl>
<dt>*size={aa}x{bb}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the size of the image to aa pixels wide and bb pixels high. If only one number is given, the graph will be that wide and also that high. The minimum size of the image is dependent on the margins and whether a title and legend are shown.

_Examples:_
|| Shows a bar chart of 300 pixels wide and 200 pixels high ||

{{{
<pBars size=300x200>
20
</pBars>
}}}

|| Shows a bar chart of 100 pixels wide and 100 pixels high ||

{{{
<pBars size=100>
40
50
</pBars>
}}}

|| Shows a bar chart of 250 pixels wide and uses the default number of pixels for height ||

{{{
<pBars size=250x>
40
50
</pBars>
}}} 
</dd>

<dt>*marginx=...  marginy=...*</dt>
<dd>
These settings determine the margin from the border of the image to the border of the drawing area. This setting is useful to keep some empty space on the edges. You can set a margin for top and bottom 'marginy' and a margin for left and right 'marginx'.

_Example:_
|| Sets all margins to zero ||

{{{
<pLines marginx=0 marginy=0>
Jan,45
Feb,62
Mar,51
Apr,44
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
</dl>

== Title ==
<dl>
<dt>*title="Site visitors"*</dt>
<dd>Sets the title of the chart to _Site visitors_. If no title is given, nothing is printed. The title is always shown on top of the chart.

_Example:_
|| Shows the title Average temperature above the graph ||

{{{
<pLines title="Average temperature">
Jan,45
Feb,62
Mar,51
Apr,44
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*titlecolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>
Sets the color of the text of the title. Use HTML hexadecimal colors.

_Example:_
|| Shows the title Average temperature in red. ||

{{{
<pLines title="Average temperature" titlecolor=#FF0000>
Jan,45
Feb,62
Mar,51
Apr,44
</pLines>
}}}

</dd>
</dl>

== Axes ==

<dl>
<dt>*axis[=<u>true</u>|false]*</dt>
<dd>
Sets whether the axes are shown or not. 'axis=true' means that the axes are shown, 'axis=false' tells the extension to hide the axes. When the axes are hidden, internally the color for the axes is set to be the same as the background color. Because of this implementation, hiding the axes does not work when setting the background type to gradient.

_Example_:
|| Creates a bar chart with axis shown ||

{{{
<pBars axis>
49
</pBars>
}}}

|| Hides the axes on a line chart ||

{{{
<pLines axis=false>
4
6
2
3
</pLines>
}}}

|| Tries to hide the axes. Because the background type is gradient, the axes will still be visible ||

{{{
<pLines bgtype=gradient axis=false>
4
6
2
3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*labels[=<u>true</u>|false]*</dt>
<dd>Shows or hides the labels next to the axes. If no labels are given in the data section, but this parameter is set to true, numbers are shown next to the X-axis.

_Example:_
||Shows the labels in the graph||

{{{
<pLines labels>
Jan,4
Feb,6
Mar,2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*box[=<u>true</u>|false]*</dt>
<dd>This parameter is used to draw a box around the graph area. The box is drawn in the same color as the axes. The result is a solid line above and to the right of the graph area. 

This parameter is present since version 1.0.2

_Example:_
|| Shows a box around the graph area ||

{{{
<pLines box>
Jan,4
Feb,6
Mar,2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>

<dt>*axiscolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the color of the axes and the labels next to the axes. This parameter only has effect when 'axis'=true.

_Example:_
|| Shows the axes and labels in the graph in red ||

{{{
<pLines axiscolor=#FF0000>
Jan,4
Feb,6
Mar,2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*xtitle=..* and *ytitle=..*</dt>
<dd>Sets a title for the X-axis and Y-axis.

_Example:_
|| Shows titels next to the X-axis and Y-axis ||

{{{
<pLines xtitle="Months" ytitle="Calls per day">
Jan,4
Feb,6
Mar,2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*xunit=..* and *yunit=..*</dt>
<dd>Sets the unit for the values on the X-axis and Y-axis. The unit is appended to the values on that axis.

_Example:_
|| Shows the values on the Y-axis as millions ||

{{{
<pLines yunit="M" title="Turnover per month">
Jan,4
Feb,5
Mar,4.2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*xformat=number|time|date* en *yformat=number|time|date*</dt>
<dd>Sets the format for the values on the X-axis and Y-axis. 
The format 'number' is default and shows the numbers on the axes as expected.
If you set the format to 'time', the values on that axis are expected to be seconds since midnight. The number 60 will be converted to 00:01:00 and the number 3599 will be converted to 00:59:59.
If you set the format to 'date', the values on that axis are expected to be seconds since 1 january 1970, midnight. This is called a [http://www.unixtimestamp.com UNIX timestamp]. The value 1100491220 will be converted to 11/14/04 22:00

_Example:_
|| Shows the values on the X-axis as time ||

{{{
<pLines title="Calls over time" xunit="time" xlabels>
32400,60
36000,140
39600,160
43200,120
46800,89
50400,171
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*angle=..*</dt>
<dd>
Angle in degrees for printing the labels under the X-axis. This is especially useful when these labels are wide and the graph is small. Values must be between 0 and 180 degrees.

_Example:_
|| The labels on the X-axis are rotated 45 degrees ||

{{{
<pBars angle=45>
January,5
February,10
March,20
April,15
May,22
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*grid[=<u>true</u>|false]*</dt>
<dd>Sets the visibility of the grid. 
_Example:_
|| Shows a grid underneath the chart ||

{{{
<pScatter grid>
1,2
4,2
3,6
3,4
7,1
</pScatter>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*gridcolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the color of the grid. This parameter only has effect when 'grid'=true.

This parameter is present since version 1.0.2

_Example:_
|| Shows the grid behind the graph in red||

{{{
<pLines grid gridcolor=#FF0000>
Jan,4
Feb,6
Mar,2
Apr,3
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
</dl>

== Colors ==
<dl>
<dt>*colors={color}[,{color},...]*</dt>
<dd>Defines the colors that are used to draw the chart. Every drawn serie will be drawn using a new color. You can specify multiple colors by separating them with a comma. When less colors are specified than needed, the colors are used multiple times. For example when 4 series are drawn and only red and green are specified as colors, the 1st and 3rd serie are drawn red and the 2nd and 4th are drawn green.

_Examples:_
|| Bar chart with two series in red and green ||

{{{
<pBars colors=#F00,#00F>
16,18
22,26
49,49
35,36
</pBars>
}}}
|| Bar chart with four series in red and green ||

{{{
<pBars colors=#F00,#00F>
16,18,13,15
22,26,21,25
49,49,52,50
35,36,34,37
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*colorscheme=[accent|greenblue|softblue|purpleblue|paired|original]*</dt>
<dd>Tells the chart to use a predefined colorscheme. A colorscheme is a list of colors looking well together. These schemes are defined in textfiles in the colorscheme directory specified in the [[configuration]]. The wiki administrator can add new colorschemes if needed.

*N.B.* If the colors and colorscheme parameters are both set, the colors parameter has precedence over the colorscheme.

_Example:_
|| A pie chart with soft blue tones ||

{{{
<pPie colorscheme="softblue">
Administration,23
Management,19
IT and services,28
Sales,25
Production,47
</pPie>
}}}
</dd>
</dl>

== Data ==
<dl>
<dt>*xlabels[=true|false]*</dt>
<dd>Set this parameter if the first column contains numeric labels. The script automatically detects whether the data contains labels when the labels are non-numeric. This flag is introduced to create the possibility for numeric labels.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with numeric labels on the X-axis ||

{{{
<pBars xtitle="minute" ytitle="calls" xlabels>
0,25
10,26
20,31
30,30
40,36
50,27
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*ylabels[=true|false]*</dt>
<dd>Set this parameter if the first row contains numeric labels. The script automatically detects whether the data contains labels when the labels are non-numeric. This flag is introduced to create the possibility for numeric labels.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with numeric labels for the different series ||

{{{
<pBars xtitle="minute" ytitle="calls">
,2008,2009
0,25,26
10,26,26
20,31,29
30,30,32
40,36,33
50,27,29
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*ymin=0  ymax=..*</dt>
<dd>
These values can be set to override automatic scaling. Different combinations of these parameters have a different effect:
* Both 'ymax' and 'ymin' are not set: the script automatically computes the bounds for the Y-axis
* Set 'ymax' but leave 'ymin' empty: the lowest value on the Y-axis is automatically computed, the highest value is set to ymax
* Set 'ymin' to 0 but leave 'ymax' empty: the highest value on the Y-axis is computed, and the lowest value is 0. The only valid value for ymin is 0.
* Set 'ymin' to 0 and 'ymax' to some other value: The Y-axis will run from 0 to ymax.

_Examples:_
|| A bar chart with automatic scaling ||

{{{
<pBars>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}
|| A bar chart running from 0 to 50 ||

{{{
<pBars ymin=0 ymax=50>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}

</dd>
</dl>

== Legend ==
<dl>
<dt>*legend[=none|left|top|<u>right</u>|bottom]*</dt>
<dd>Shows the legend on the specified position. If no location is given (i.e. just 'legend'), the legend is placed on the right.

_Examples:_
|| A bar chart with legend||

{{{
<pBars legend>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}
|| A line chart with a legend on the left ||

{{{
<pLines legend=left>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pLines>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*legendcolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the color for the text inside the legend.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with legend with red text||

{{{
<pBars legend legendcolor=#F00>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*legendbgcolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the color for the text inside the legend.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with legend with red background||

{{{
<pBars legend legendbgcolor=#F00>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*legendbordercolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the color for the border around the legend.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with legend with red border||

{{{
<pBars legend legendbordercolor=#F00>
Y2008,Y2009
25,26
26,26
31,29
30,32
36,33
27,29
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
</dl>

== Background ==
<dl>
<dt>*bgcolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the background color for the whole image. The 'graphbgcolor' sets the color for the chart area alone.

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with green background ||

{{{
<pBars bgcolor=#0F0>
24,43
28,31
11,22
42,21
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*bgtype=normal|gradient*</dt>
<dd>Defines the type of background for the whole image. The possibilities are
* normal: results in a one color background
* gradient: will produce a gradient on the background

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with gradient background ||

{{{
<pBars bgtype=gradient>
24,43
28,31
11,22
42,21
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*graphbgcolor={color}*</dt>
<dd>Sets the background color for the chart area alone. 

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with yellow chart area on green background ||

{{{
<pBars bgcolor=#0F0 graphbgcolor=#0FF>
24,43
28,31
11,22
42,21
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>
<dt>*graphbgtype=normal|gradient*</dt>
<dd>Defines the type of background in the chart area. The possibilities are
* normal: results in a one color background
* gradient: will produce a gradient on the background

_Example:_
|| A bar chart with gradient background ||

{{{
<pBars graphbgtype=gradient>
24,43
28,31
11,22
42,21
</pBars>
}}}
</dd>

= Bar charts =
;stacked[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Geeft aan of de bar chart stacked moet zijn of niet.

;overlay[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Produceert een overlay grafiek, waarbij de staven van verschillende series over elkaar heen worden getoond. Werkt niet in combinatie met stacked=true

;opacity=..
:Geeft aan hoe doorzichtig de staven moeten zijn. 0 = geheel doorzichtig, 100 = geheel ondoorzichtig. Standaard is het 100 voor een gewone en een stacked grafiek. Bij een overlay grafiek is het standaard 50.

= Line charts =
;plots=<u>none</u>|open|closed
:Laat op de gemeten punten een rondje zien, al dan niet open

;plotsize=..
:Grootte van het rondje die getoond wordt.

;cubic[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Toont de grafiek als een lijn zonder harde knikken erin.

;filled[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Vult de ruimte onder de grafiek

;opacity=..
:Geeft aan hoe doorzichtig de gevulde ruimte onder de grafiek moet zijn. 0 = geheel doorzichtig, 100 = geheel ondoorzichtig. Standaard is het 40(= 40% ondoorzichtig). Deze waarde heeft alleen zin als filled=true

= Radar charts =
;filled[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Vult de ruimte onder de grafiek

;striped[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Toont strepen tussen de verbindingslijnen in de radar grafiek

;stripecolor=...
:Bepaalt de kleur van de verbindingslijnen in de radar grafiek (dus niet van de achtergrond)

;opacity=..
:Geeft aan hoe doorzichtig de gevulde ruimte onder de grafiek moet zijn. 0 = geheel doorzichtig, 100 = geheel ondoorzichtig. Standaard is het 40(= 40% ondoorzichtig). Deze waarde heeft alleen zin als filled=true

= Pie charts =
1 of 2 kolommen:
de eerste bevat de titel, 
de tweede de waarde voor in de pie chart
Volgende kolommen worden verwijderd

;labels[=true|<u>false</u>]
:labels=false betekent dat er geen labels worden geprint bij de taartpunten. Eventueel kunnen er wel percentages getoond worden met percentages=true. Wanneer de labels worden aangezet, is het handig om de legenda uit te zetten. Anders kost het erg veel ruimte en wordt de taart ook erg klein.

;percentages[=<u>true</u>|false]
:labels=true betekent dat er percentages worden geprint bij de taartpunten.

;3d[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Zorgt voor een 3d weergave van de pie chart

;exploded[=true|<u>false</u>]
:Zet de taartpunten een klein stukje uit elkaar

= Scatter charts =
2 of 3 kolommen:
de eerste bevat de titel, 
de tweede de X coordinaat,
de derde de Y coordinaat

Als er geen kolom is, dan worden de coordinaten (1,1), (2,2), (3,3) etc. gebruikt.
Wanneer er maar 1 kolom is, dan worden die coordinaten als X en als Y coordinaat gebruikt

Het is ook mogelijk om ipv 2 kolommen voor X en Y coordinaten er 4 of 6 te gebruiken. Dan worden meerdere series getoond. De titel voor elke serie staat boven de X kolom ervan.

;plots=<u>none</u>|open|closed
:Laat op de gemeten punten een rondje zien, al dan niet open

;plotsize=..
:Grootte van het rondje die getoond wordt.

;connected[=<u>true</u>|false]
:Bepaalt of de punten verbonden moeten worden met een lijn

= Bubble charts =
3 of 4 kolommen:
de eerste bevat de titel, 
de tweede de X coordinaat,
de derde de Y coordinaat,
de vierde de oppervlakte van de bubble

Als er geen kolom is, dan worden de coordinaten (1,1), (2,2), (3,3) etc. gebruikt, met als grootte 1.

Wanneer er maar 1 kolom is, dan wordt die als oppervlakte-kolom gebruikt, met coordinaten (1,1), (2,2), (3,3).

Wanneer er 2 kolommen zijn, dan wordt de eerste als X en Y coordinaat gebruikt en de tweede als oppervlakte

;plotsize=..
:Grootte van de grootste bubble die getoond wordt.

;cross=[true|<u>false</u>]
:Divides the graph in four areas.